Cancer is not a not just a cellular
cellular disease. It's a physiological
disease. It's an environmental disease.
It's an economic disease. Uh in some
ways you could say that it's a disease
of racial disparity.
[music]
This episode was brought to you by Alloy
Health and Rivian.
Many of you know my next guest as the
Pulitzer Prizewinning author of The
Emperor of All Maladies, The Song of the
Cell and The Gene. He's one of the best
medical writers of our time. And you
don't have to take my word for it. He
won the Puliter Prize in 2011, and he is
the New York Times top 100 books of the
century, Time magazine's alltime 100
best non-fiction books. And it's hard to
believe, but The Emperor of All Malades
was published 15 years ago, and a lot
has happened in cancer research since
then. And we'll be getting into that
today because The Emperor of All Malades
was re-released last month with four
major chapters highlighting the new
developments of detection, prevention,
treatment, and most importantly, a
change in perspective on how we should
approach cancer research and treatment.
And I have to tell you, this is one of
my all-time favorite books. And if you
may have noticed, I'm a huge fan. Dr.
Murka G, I am truly honored to have you
here on the second opinion. Welcome.
>> My pleasure. Thank you very much. Thank
you for having me.
>> Oh, it's a pleasure. You said you wrote
this book while you were an oncology
fellow, right?
>> That's correct.
>> When did you have time to write a book
as an oncology fellow? I mean, did you
jot notes after clinic or after call
nights? Where did you get the time?
>> That's exactly what I did. I mean, this
book was not a book. This book was a
journal. Um, and I never at one point I,
you know, never really thought it would
become a book.
uh it was only after you know probably
200 pages of journaling
um that I thought you know it's it's an
interesting fact that we don't know so
much about cancer most importantly
patients don't know so much about cancer
patients who who really deserve to know
they want to know one of the first
questions patients ask you very well
know is why am I being treated this way
um not just my prognosis which is of
course an important not just my
diagnosis which is important but
why this therapy how how did we get
here? How did I get here? Um you know
every patient asks um what were my what
were my risk factors? Um what did I do
right? What did I do wrong? uh you know
all of these questions and what was
astonishing is that you know of course
we have individual answers to all these
questions and they're important but but
we also needed I think I I began to
realize that we needed a kind of
historical answer to this question and
that historical answer is what prompted
um you know this the the first version
of the book. Well, you know, I think to
to be able to write this book, you have
to be an exquisite storyteller. Um, and
I think it all also requires a lot of
just sensitivity and empathy to be able
to write a book like this because, as
you said, it's a lot of things. It's not
just a medical book. And it's not just
it's not written for people. You don't
have to be a doctor to read this book
and enjoy it and understand it. Um, it's
history. It's a detective book. It's
memoir. It's all of these things. And
your book has so many literary re
references in your book. I mean that to
me is just incredibly uh amazing. So
when did you have time to read all these
books that you weave into the
storytelling of your own book? Well, you
know, I was a reader right from as long
as I remember it. And and the literary
references that are strewn throughout
the book aren't just there for sort of,
I don't know,
showing off the literary references.
They exist for a very particular reason.
And the reason is that the word cancer
metaphorically is not just any other
word. It's a word that's stitched into
um our consciousness, our imagination,
our literature, our writing. I mean, you
know, we use cancer metaphorically. We
can say we say, you know, this is a
cancer in our society.
>> Uh we say um you know, your behavior
that day was so malignant.
Um these are the uses of the word cancer
malignant metaphorically and by that
nature by its very nature the idea of an
insurmountable disease a challenge that
we can't even seem to understand let
alone solve uh a challenge that is so
ancient and yet so modern but also who
else can understand grief in this
intimate way than a cancer patient. So,
so these aren't I often tell people the
literary references aren't there just to
kind of uh be there or to sound arudite
or to sound uh sound uh you know bring
you to a poem. They're there because
they serve a purpose. They remind us
that this journey that we're in the
middle of um with all its twists and
turns and its incredible highs and lows
and its transformational capacity. The
the fact that people get transformed,
patients get transformed by their
diagnosis, their loved ones get
transformed as they start this journey
with with with patients um is an is an
ancient journey and a modern journey.
Well, you know, I I too am I'm a lover
of language and of literature and um the
one thing I have to say about your book
is that it is one of the books that I
consistently listen to, you know, now
and let's talk about cancer and the
history of cancer and really how our
understanding of it and how that's
evolved. And I think that, you know,
cancer, just like you say, it signifies
everything that's bad and and horrible
that we think about. And I think it's
the most feared because it's the least
understood. And um you know, I grew up
in the 60s and cancer um in my world was
something that was really shrouded in
fear and secrecy and shame. and you know
how we talk about it. You know, we're
always battling cancer or it's a war or
we're fighting cancer and it makes it
seem as though um you know if we were
only stronger, braver somehow we could
win. But you said you said something um
where you said I think it was in this
the new section of your book where you
say a positive mental attitude does not
cure cancer any more than a negative
attitude causes cancer. But that's not
really how people see it. They feel
like, you know, oh, if I would just, you
know, if I could just buck up here,
>> yeah, I I think that's a very that that
is a that is exactly what this book
tries to tries to answer or to some
extent challenge. Um, it's not your
fault. It was never your fault. Um
obviously there are people who make uh
behavioral choices, smoking being one of
them. Um but there you know many people
get cancer for no reason that they they
understand or know when cells divide
they inevitably acquire mutations,
accidental mutations. Um and so cancer
is also a genetic accident. Um, it is
also a disease caused by a virus that
you may not have known that you
contracted. Um, it is a disease caused
by exposure to a carcinogen that you may
not know that you were exposed to.
>> Um, so so there there are, as I said,
four or five fundamental ways that your
genes can be changed and cancer is
ultimately a disease which is caused by
mutations in genes.
>> Yeah. You know, and this is this is
something that's very personal for me
because, you know, my mother died of
colon cancer when I was 12 years old. I
am one of eight children and six of my
seven siblings have had a total of eight
cancers. So, it's everpresent and it's
something that um you know, you want to
at least from my point of view, I hope
that it's not genetic, but there's
something else. And um but I also can't
say that, you know, there's any blame to
be had here. I've always tried to
understand it and hopefully do some of
the things that I can do to prevent
cancer, which I think is is very
important and not really talked about a
lot. But I think part of our
understanding or lack thereof
uh has really really shows up in your
book. And I would really like for you to
just take a minute and just briefly go
through some of the disproven
theories about the origin of cancer and
how we've sometime been led astray by
that. And I'm thinking of, you know, all
the ones back from the beginning of
time, the black bile, uh, bad genes and
and how that has affected how we deal
with it. Well, I mean the the the theory
that lasted the longest time, even
though it's been disproven and and now
we don't even remember it, was that uh
cancer was caused by uh the accumulation
of black bile, one of the four tumors.
Uh you this was a theory propounded by
the ancient um physicians including
Galen himself. Um you know Galen thought
that the human body was made up of a
balance of four humors black bile,
yellow bile, flem and blood. Um and
Galen and the Galinists
um imagined that every disease could be
sort of classified uh that the nosology
of disease, the pathophysiology of the
disease could be described by an
imbalance of these things. cancer was
attached to uh black bile. Um it's
interesting that the only other disease
that was attached to or one other
disease that was attached to black bile
was depression. And the idea was that if
you could purge out the black bile, if
you could somehow let it out, uh you
know, sort of like cutting it out with
and letting the pus out uh in this case
the black bile out that you would get
rid of cancer. Um that was a major
theory that that that existed for a very
long time and
>> and and this was the theory that led to
well there are two things that I want to
say about that and that that you know
when you say black bile even though they
had no objective evidence that there was
any black bile anywhere in the body. It
was just the notion that that they
called it black bile because black was
also the word that described something
bad and horrible. It was so we had this
black bile but this same theory led us
to what we did for a long time what
bloodletting right
>> that's right that's exactly right and
and you know it was so imaginatively
rich so metaphorically suggestive that
people really believed it
>> yeah and it went on for a very long time
we were blood we were bloodletting until
the 19th century right
>> that's right it's in fact people often
say you know what is a theory of cancer
uh that lasted the longest and this was
the theory of cancer that lasted the
longest. The the the the genetic
mutation theory is only about you know
50 odd years old.
>> Right. And do you think that we have
sort of been misled in this fight or war
on cancer because we've really thought
of it as sort of a a monolithic disease
when in reality it's not. It's hundreds
of diseases that there is going to be no
one answer to. Right. Um that's correct.
I mean I I I generally um try to cut
what is think what I think is a middle
view. The middle view is that yes there
are hundreds of diseases but we wouldn't
call them all cancer if they didn't have
some commonalities and they do have
commonalities. The commonalities are um
you know they are all diseases caused by
mutations in g in in genes. These genes
are genes that fundamentally affect the
growth of cells. Um they also affect
other properties of cells including
metabolism and including um the way they
these cells can occupy spaces that they
aren't supposed to occupy but primarily
it is the growth of cells that's uh
disrupted. So um that's one commonality.
we can understand them as a common set
of diseases and also potentially devise
treatments which uh cut through or cut
across different kinds of cancer. I mean
again in the new chapters we encounter
imunological therapy imunotherapy.
Imunotherapy works against you know many
forms of colctal cancer. It also works
against many forms of skin cancer. It
also works against uh you know some
other kinds of uh uh different kinds of
cancers. And you would have thought that
you know God you know what does skin
cancer have to do with colurectal
cancer? They look different under the
microscope. They behave differently in
the body. And yet in both cases uh in
some uh particular instances
imunological therapy is what works.
Welcome back to the second opinion.
Today's segment is presented by alloy
health. Aging happens to all of us, but
that doesn't mean you have to live with
hot flashes, brain fog, poor sleep,
weight gain, or skin that suddenly feels
like it belongs to someone else. These
types of changes aren't random. They're
hormonal. We know women out there have
questions, so we're here to help answer
some of those. We've received a number
of listener questions about all things
women's health, so I'm here to give you
a second opinion. Our listener question
is, "I've been told by my doctor to wait
until full menopause before doing
anything. Is that correct or would I
benefit from acting now when symptoms
first emerge?" Well, this is a very good
question. And even though the definition
of menopause is having had your last
menstrual period plus 12 months to
confirm that it's your last menstrual
period, there is no reason you need to
wait to initiate therapy.
First off, I want to say this. You get
treatment when your symptoms are
bothersome to you. There is no benefit
until waiting for 12 months to confirm
that you're in menopause. Most women
will start having symptoms for years
before they actually get to their last
menstrual period. Or what if you have an
IUD or you've had a procedure such as an
indometrial ablation? How would you know
when your last menstrual period actually
is? So that's why that definition is not
really helpful. I think that the
important thing is that women understand
that you should seek treatment when you
are having any of the symptoms of
menopause such as hot flashes, mood
swings, night sweats, brain fog that are
bothersome to you. And there is new uh
evidence now that says that the earlier
you seek treatment and start hormone
therapy, the more benefits you acrewue.
So in answer to that question, no, you
do not have to wait until full
menopause. Perry menopause and symptoms
are clinical diagnosis, which means that
when you are bothered, that is when you
should seek treatment. And that is why
we at Alloy Health understand this
distinction and we will not have anyone
wait. So please, if you're having
symptoms, get treated. Don't wait. If
today's question made you think about
your own symptoms, or if you're ready to
finally get some answers, Alloy Health
is a great place to start. Join the 95%
of women who tried Alloy and saw relief
in the first 2 weeks. Head to my
alloy.com and tell them all about your
symptoms, and you'll get a fully
customized treatment plan. And you'll
get $25 off your first order today when
you use code TSO25.
Head to my A ly.com
and enter code TSO25 to get $25 off your
first order.
This episode is brought to you by our
friends at Rivian and their allectric
full-size SUVs and trucks made for all
of life's adventures. Rivian just
announced their all-new Riven Quad.
Their fastest, most capable vehicle yet.
Powered by four motors, one for each
wheel, it gives you unmatched traction,
control, and performance anywhere you
are. On winding roads or off-road
trails, the Quad is engineered for
precision driving and maximum adventure.
With a native NACS port, the Quad is
compatible with 50,000 DC fast chargers,
so getting back on the road is
hassle-free. With beautifully designed
interiors, tons of storage, and
incredible capability inside and out,
the Quad is made for everyday comfort
and rugged utility. Plus, you'll love
the tech. The Rivian experience gets
better over time with software updates.
The premium audio experience sounds as
good as the ride feels. Premium audio is
part of the sound plus vision package in
quad and tri vehicles and can be a paid
upgrade in dual models. And the Rivian
autonomy platform plus a paid
subscription product offers a full suite
of advanced safety and driver assistance
features. There is adaptive cruise
control, active lane keeping, blind spot
monitoring, and forward collision
warning with automatic emergency
braking. Check out the all-new allectric
quad truck or SUV and the full lineup of
vehicles now at rivan.com.
[music]
The one thing that I really want to
emphasize for our audience is that you
know cancer has been with us for as long
as we have been on this planet but our
understanding of cancer is really
relatively recent and and the question I
have for you is like over the past let's
say 50 years what's been our biggest
success and what has been our biggest
failure in this. I think that the
biggest success is uh what I outlined in
the last chapter of the new version of
the book which is that we are slowly
edging towards what I call a
physiological understanding of cancer
and by that I mean not we we've stopped
thinking about cancer as a kind of um
spaceship floating in the vacuum uh a
set of cells that that's a spaceship
floating in the vacuum cancer cells
cells engage the body. The last chapter
is called a body in a body.
>> Cancer cells engage the body. They draw
out blood vessels. They change the
metabolism of the body. They suck
nutrients from the body in very
particular ways. They use very
particular mechanisms uh to fuel their
growth. um they avoid the immune system
um ironically using some mechanisms by
which the the the fetus avoids the the
maternal immune system. I mean, who
would have thought that cancer could uh
basically plagiarize or somehow um
successfully uh imitate the idea that it
could live inside the body. Uh in the
same way and be not recognized as a
foreign object in the same way that uh
you know that that that a fetus is is in
a body uh and is not recognized and
rejected as a foreign object. But but
all of this is coming true and this is
the physiology of cancer. is one of the
greatest things that we've discovered
recently.
>> Yeah. And I think that that's really
important that that we understand that
the our immune system is very active in
fighting not just foreign invaders but
the invaders from within such as cancer.
Um
I want to talk a little bit about um the
prevention and screening aspect because
you talk about that in the um in the new
chapters of your book as well and you
know what screening can and cannot do.
Um, and I want to before we get to
screening, spend a little time on
prevention because, you know, of the
things that we think about when we think
cancer, we think of prevention,
screening, treatment, uh, diagnosis and
treatment. But we don't spend a lot of
time on prevention. And why do you think
that is? Because wouldn't it be the best
thing in the world to say, well, we can
worry about how to treat cancer, but why
don't we spend time thinking about how
not to increase our risk for cancer
because we understand we can never
eliminate it.
>> Um, well, so this has been a big I think
big question in the entire cancer
community, which is how to prevent
cancer more effectively and how how we
might not have to, you know, spend all
our money and resources trying to treat
it. Um the problem has been that for a
very long time we understood as as I
said we understood the root cause of
cancer which is uh mutations in genes.
Some in some cases this is because of
genetic accidents. We can't
fundamentally speaking we can't prevent
those genetic accidents
>> right
>> um but what we can do is we also know
that these mutations in the gene in
genes can be caused by substances in the
in the in the environment um just to
give you some examples obviously tobacco
smoke we talked about um we also you
know formaldahhide um uh asbestous um we
had a a test called the as test but that
could only detect a a fraction of all
the potential carcinogens. We also had
biological tests, but biological tests
by and by that I mean exposing animals
to
>> um but that's that's also limited
because you can only expose, you know,
you can only do so much. Um but um but
but there are a hidden universe of
carcinogens that we had been unable to
see before that now biological methods,
refined biological methods are beginning
to understand. and they're very
surprising. Um I I I'll I'll leave a
little bit of the mystery to the
readers, but these are a surprising
group of carcinogens that whose
mechanism you wouldn't normally suspect.
Uh these are these are new new
carcinogens and and the hope is that we
will devise tests for these new
carcinogens and find them and prevent
them. Well, you know, this is a good way
a good segue between talking about
screening and talking about the thing
that really uh I would have to say is
always foreign most in the mind of u my
listeners and viewers and that is breast
cancer for a woman of a certain age.
Um, and
we have to recognize the fact that even
in the 30 plus years that I've been in
medicine that we've made considerable
progress both in screening and treatment
with uh breast cancer, but we also, and
that's why I love your book, because you
also have the historical perspective of
how many times we've gotten it wrong and
we talk about getting it wrong for a
very long time uh was the these radical
mastctomies that that happened for what
that went on for like 80 years and for
women who well we this was before we had
mamograms to screen but the same radical
treatment was done for all of these
women for my listeners who don't
understand what that means everybody
knows what a mastctomy but a mastctomy
is but radical mastctomies were very
disfiguring surgeries they took off the
breast. They took the the muscles that
uh that were underlying the lymph nodes
from the neck from the axilla and it was
disfiguring and in a lot of ways I think
that and and for a lot of women which
contributes to the fear of breast cancer
is the treatment was as horrific almost
as the disease itself. I also want to
talk about the differences in the
treatments that we have now. So can we
just talk about that for a moment where
breast cancer is?
>> So breast cancer is one of the cancers
where um the treatment is has changed so
much. We now know that breast cancer
comes
uh in many forms but two essential forms
is a form that's responsive to hormonal
treatment and a form that's not
responsive to hormonal treatment. So we
call the first one ERPR positive, the
other one is ERPR negative. Um the
second fact is that there's another
target on breast cancer that we now know
called K her 2 um which is a gene that
is amplified in certain breast cancers.
And in fact just even last month that
protocol was changed because a new
version of an anti-hertude drug emerged.
And just last month the uh the trials
showed that we should be changing that
protocol all over again. I won't go into
the details of what what the protocol is
but let me just tell you the following.
Um for a woman with an ERP positive her
two positive breast cancer that's small
and removable.
um that woman can can likely en enjoy
and by enjoy I mean really enjoy in the
sense that she will you know suffer
through some consequences obviously of
the drugs but she can easily imagine 15
to 20 years of lifetime without any
cancer. Um and for the most part many of
these women are are functionally cured.
[snorts] Um there is no radical
mastctomy. There is in fact only uh even
though that's it's still a surgical
procedure there's only a so-called
lumpctomy followed by radiation followed
by therapy. Therapy often can take a
while. It can take some time but
nonetheless uh the the lifetime of this
person has really really changed in a
way that you know a woman in the 1940s
would suffer a disfiguring procedure
possibly no medicines at the end and
always worry year after year of the
possibility that the breast cancer would
return to kill this woman unfortunately.
So a dramatic difference um and it is
actually making a difference to women's
lives.
>> Right. And you know I I'm going to take
issue with one thing that uh when I read
in your book because you said it again
this time and and that is about the
relationship of estrogen and breast
cancer in terms of being and um
particularly post-menopausal estrogen
being a risk factor for breast cancer.
Um that's not really the case. You know,
I mean, when you look at the fact that,
you know, estrogen increases with age,
estrogen use is down in this country.
And so, even with the interpretation of
the data, you know, and we can have this
argument later, but there does not
appear to be, you know, using hormone
therapy or particularly estrogen itself
does not increase your risk of breast
cancer. it is what it is. But um and I
think that's a very different
conversation than using estrogen
afterwards or what that means in in the
space of the treatment. But just having
women be fearful of estrogen because
they fear breast cancer because the one
thing that I always like to tell my
patients and even my listeners is that
you know even women who are diagnosed
with breast cancer they're more likely
to die of cardiovascular disease than
they are to die of their breast cancer
in today's world with early diagnosis.
So that's one of those um things that
you know where women blame themselves
for sometimes for having made a choice
that may or may not and in most cases
did not really impact
>> well actually Sharon this is uh you
raised a very important point but it's
actually clarified in the book
>> um the I know it's it's it the book
makes very clear
>> two things number one is that there
disagreement
uh around these studies around the
interpretation of these studies. So I've
I've I've actually made it a point to
point that out
>> and that the the million women study and
the UK study and versus the American
study had discrepancies. I point that
out as well.
>> And thirdly that estrogen pills versus
estrogen plus progesterone pills are
very different from each other in terms
of impact on on on cancer. So all of
these are pointed out in the book. Um so
um I hope you don't take issue with
those because I make it very clear that
there's that that there's the data is
still the jury is still out. Well, I
think that see that would be a whole we
could have a whole other show about that
about just discussing those two studies.
But I don't want to um leave this
without um getting to some other just
one of the basic things that you talk
about in your book and and that how we
look at cancer and how we have looked at
cancer historically. Well, I say
historically now that we have the
ability to look at the cell or the
cancer and to target the cell itself.
But you bring up the concept of not just
the seed but the soil. And by that I
mean the seed being the cancer cell
itself and the soil being the
environment that that cancer cell
happens to find itself in. And that we
can't really
just do one in isolation without
thinking about the other. Is that a fair
way to say it?
>> That's exactly the right way to say it.
And and we need to find out what the
characteristics of the soil are. We know
some of the characteristics of the soil.
So the soil has immune cells. Um we know
how to potentially activate them in
certain circumstances. The soil has uh
blood vessels. Um there are medicines
that are now very actively looking at
how to stop cancer cells from uh uh
pulling out blood vessels so that they
the soil has nutrients, the soil has all
these mechanisms and the there are
>> um I would say if there are lots and
lots of seed therapies and by that I
mean cell therapies that attack the
cancer cells, there are now more and
more soil therapies that change the
micro envirment. environment around the
cancer cells so that they don't um don't
have a don't don't don't don't have the
the capacity to grow the way they
normally do.
>> Right? And you know the reason why
that's so important to me is that um
because there has to be some
underpinning about the um disparities in
cancer outcomes for for black people,
African-Americans in this country. You
know, it's not as if, you know, when you
keep focusing on just the cell, just the
cell and not looking at the the not just
the even the the environment that is,
but the whole microcosm that exists,
then you're going to miss some of the
things because we're focusing too
narrowly on um
>> That's right. So, cancer is I mean, and
this is the last chapter of the book.
Cancer is not a not just a cellular
cellular disease. It's a physiological
disease. It's an environmental disease.
It's an economic disease. Uh in some
ways, you could say that it's a disease
of racial disparity. Um uh you can look
at uh prostate cancer outcomes among
African-American men versus white men.
You can look at the disparities in
breast cancer outcomes among
African-American women and and and and
white women, for instance, and realize
that cancer is not just a disease of
cells. It is also a disease of
societies.
>> Exactly. Um I before I let you go I'm
going to give I know that you have got
things that you are working on in your
lab and just tell me what is the the
source of hope for you and as we are
sort of entering into a new era of of
cancer therapy and treatment what are
you most excited about?
>> Well I'm excited about the idea that we
can use combined modality treatment. Um
so I'm excited about the fact that if we
combine
uh multiple ways of tackling cancer uh
not just one that we we give it a multi-
hit um that will actually begin to cure
the disease and of course I'm excited
about the fact that we have new ways of
thinking about prevention. So those are
the two arenas that I'm most excited
about. Obviously when I think about
multiple modalities I'm thinking about
not just the immune system but also the
soil as you called it. uh also uh new
genetic uh uh ways of turning on and
turning off genes uh using uh medicines
of various sorts. But almost always the
successes in cancer therapy have been
combined modality and I'm excited about
the fact that we will soon launch not
just one therapy trials but combined
therapy trials.
>> How long do you think it's going to take
us when we look back on where we are
today?
How long do you think it's going to be
before we're looking at what we do now
the same way we looked at blood letting?
>> It's a tough question. Uh but you know
the world in in cancer I just told you
the the a new trial comes along every
day and it's it practically every month
is a practice changing changing trial.
So, so um you know the the pace of
research has accelerated exponentially
and one of the things I would make a
plea for is that as you very well know
there's an attack on science and there's
an attack on research um in the country
that's going on right now. We just need
to stop that cuz if we don't do that uh
it seems often it seems sort of someone
else's problem but it becomes your
problem when your loved one or you have
a disease like cancer and there isn't
research support to u drive the next
innovation. [music]
>> Thank you so much.
>> Thank you and thank you for this
incredible podcast.
[music]
We have reached the part of the show
where I give my doctor's orders or
takeaways from today's conversation. And
[music]
the first thing I want to say to you is
that early detection and screening saves
lives. So, please get those mammograms
and colon cancer screenings. But when it
comes to things like total body scans
and multicancer blood tests, there is no
proof that they improve outcome. And not
only do they not improve outcome, but
they are costly. So just be careful.
Number two, ovarian cancer is
unfortunately a cancer that we do not
have screening for. But I do want you to
know that there is information that you
can use. For women who have used oral
contraceptives for 5 years or more, the
risk of ovarian cancer is 50% less. And
if you happen to be getting a tubal
liation or getting your tubes tied for
sterilization, don't just tie the tubes
or burn the tubes. Have them removed.
The new theory is that many ovarian
cancers don't even originate in the
ovaries, but in the fallopian tube. And
three, I think a very important concept
of seed versus soil. The cancer risk
that we all encounter is shaped not just
by the cancer cell itself, but the
environment or the ecosystem that
produces it. So, this is where
maintaining a healthy lifestyle matters.
Check out our show notes for more
information on the topic. Join each week
wherever you find your podcasts as I
break down medical topics and leave you
with expert advice. If you enjoy the
show, follow us so you never miss an
episode. If you like what you hear,
leave a review. You can submit your
questions on my social or online at
drsharonalone.com
and click on the second opinion. Until
next week, take care. [music]